# Amazon RDS
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) is a web service that makes it easier to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the AWS Cloud. It provides cost-efficient, resizable capacity for an industry-standard relational database and manages common database administration tasks.

## Amazon RDS DB instances
A DB instance is an isolated database environment running in the cloud. It is the basic building block of Amazon RDS. A DB instance can contain multiple user-created databases, and can be accessed using the same client tools and applications you might use to access a standalone database instance. DB instances are simple to create and modify with the AWS command line tools, Amazon RDS API operations, or the AWS Management Console.

The DB instance identifier forms part of the DNS hostname allocated to your instance by RDS. For example, if you specify db1 as the DB instance identifier, then RDS will automatically allocate a DNS endpoint for your instance. An example endpoint is db1.abcdefghijkl.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com, where db1 is your instance ID.

In the example endpoint db1.abcdefghijkl.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com, the string abcdefghijkl is a unique identifier for a specific combination of AWS Region and AWS account. The identifier abcdefghijkl in the example is internally generated by RDS and doesn't change for the specified combination of Region and account. Thus, all your DB instances in this Region share the same fixed identifier. Consider the following features of the fixed identifier:

## DB instance classes
The DB instance class determines the computation and memory capacity of an Amazon RDS DB instance. The DB instance class that you need depends on your processing power and memory requirements.

A DB instance class consists of both the DB instance class type and the size. For example, db.r6g is a memory-optimized DB instance class type powered by AWS Graviton2 processors. Within the db.r6g instance class type, db.r6g.2xlarge is a DB instance class. The size of this class is 2xlarge.

## Amazon RDS DB instance storage
DB instances for Amazon RDS for Db2, MariaDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server use Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volumes for database and log storage.

In some cases, your database workload might not be able to achieve 100 percent of the IOPS that you have provisioned. 

## Supported features in Amazon RDS by AWS Region and DB engine
### Blue/Green Deployments
A blue/green deployment copies a production database environment in a separate, synchronized staging environment. By using Amazon RDS Blue/Green Deployments, you can make changes to the database in the staging environment without affecting the production environment. For example, you can upgrade the major or minor DB engine version, change database parameters, or make schema changes in the staging environment. When you are ready, you can promote the staging environment to be the new production database environment. For more information, see Using Amazon RDS Blue/Green Deployments for database updates.

